feat: add OIDC Native policy (#2210)
nginx/documentation: content/nic/configuration/policy-resource/policy-reference.md

  Each section includes an example, a field table, and the merging behavior NGINX Ingress Controller uses when a resource references more than one policy of the same type.
f5-keywords: "nginx ingress controller, nic, policy resource, access control, rate limit, api key, basic auth, jwt, ingressmtls, egressmtls, external auth, oidc, oidcnative, cache, cors, waf, hsts"
f5-audience: developer, operator
---

This reference describes the fields and merging behavior for each Policy type.

## AccessControl

The access control policy configures NGINX to deny or allow requests from clients with the specified IP addresses or subnets.

For example, the following policy allows access for clients from the subnet `10.0.0.0/8` and denies access for any other clients:

```yaml
accessControl:
  allow:
  - 10.0.0.0/8
```

In contrast, the following policy does the opposite. It denies access for clients from `10.0.0.0/8` and allows access for any other clients:

```yaml
accessControl:
  deny:
  - 10.0.0.0/8
```

{{< call-out class="note" >}}

> This feature uses the NGINX [ngx_http_access_module](http://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_access_module.html). The NGINX Ingress Controller access control policy supports either allow rules or deny rules, but not both, unlike the module itself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This feature uses the NGINX [ngx_http_access_module](https://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_access_module.html). The NGINX Ingress Controller access control policy supports either allow rules or deny rules, but not both, unlike the module itself.
```

|``rejectCode`` | Sets the status code to return in response to rejected requests. Must fall into the range ``400..599``. Default is ``503``. | ``int`` | No |
|``scale`` | Keeps the rate limit constant by dividing the configured rate by the number of NGINX Ingress Controller pods currently serving traffic. This adjustment keeps the rate limit consistent, even as the number of pods fluctuates due to autoscaling. **This doesn't work correctly if requests from a client aren't distributed evenly across all Ingress Controller pods** (for example, with sticky sessions or long-lived TCP connections with many requests). In these cases, [zone sync]({{< ref "/nic/configuration/global-configuration/configmap-resource.md#zone-sync" >}}) gives better results. Turning on `zone-sync` suppresses this setting. | ``bool`` | No |
|``condition`` | Add a condition to a rate-limit policy. | [ratelimit.condition](#ratelimitcondition) | No |

{{% /table %}}

{{< call-out class="note" >}}

> For each policy referenced in a VirtualServer or its VirtualServerRoutes, NGINX Ingress Controller generates a single rate limiting zone defined by the [`limit_req_zone`](http://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_limit_req_module.html#limit_req_zone) directive. If two VirtualServer resources reference the same policy, NGINX Ingress Controller generates two different rate limiting zones, one zone per VirtualServer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For each policy referenced in a VirtualServer or its VirtualServerRoutes, NGINX Ingress Controller generates a single rate limiting zone defined by the [`limit_req_zone`](https://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_limit_req_module.html#limit_req_zone) directive. If two VirtualServer resources reference the same policy, NGINX Ingress Controller generates two different rate limiting zones, one zone per VirtualServer.
```

### RateLimit.Condition.JWT

{{< call-out class="note" >}}

This feature is only available with NGINX Plus.

{{< /call-out >}}

RateLimit.Condition.JWT defines a condition for a rate limit by JWT claim. For example, the following condition applies a rate limit policy only to requests with a JWT claim `user_details.level` with a value `premium`:

```yaml
jwt:
  claim: user_details.level
  match: premium
```

The rate limit policy applies only to requests that contain a JWT with the specified claim and value. For example, the following JWT payload matches the JWT condition:

```json
{
  "user_details": {
    "level": "premium"
  },
  "sub": "client1"
}
```

{{% table %}}

|Field | Description | Type | Required |
| ---| ---| ---| --- |

> |``claim`` | Claim is the JWT claim to be rate limit by. Nested claims should be separated by ".". | ``string`` | Yes |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|``claim`` | Claim is the JWT claim on which to apply the rate limit. Nested claims should be separated by ".". | ``string`` | Yes |
```

|``match`` | the value of the claim to match against. | ``string`` | Yes |

{{% /table %}}

### RateLimit.Condition.Variables

RateLimit.Condition.Variables defines a condition for a rate limit by NGINX variable. The following example defines a condition for a rate limit policy that applies only to requests with the request method with a value `GET`:

```yaml
variables:
  - name: $request_method
    match: GET
```

{{< call-out class="note" >}}

NGINX Ingress Controller currently supports only one variable at a time.

{{< /call-out >}}

{{% table %}}

|Field | Description | Type | Required |
| ---| ---| ---| --- |

> |``name`` | the name of the NGINX variable to be rate limit by. | ``string`` | Yes |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|``name`` | the name of the NGINX variable on which to apply the rate limit. | ``string`` | Yes |
```

|``match`` | the value of the NGINX variable to match against.  Values prefixed with the `~` character denote the following is a [regular expression](https://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_map_module.html#map).  | ``string`` | Yes |

{{% /table %}}

## APIKey

The API Key auth policy configures NGINX to authorize client requests based on the presence of a valid API Key in a header or query parameter specified in the policy.

{{< call-out class="note" >}}

> This feature uses the NGINX [ngx_http_auth_request_module](http://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_auth_request_module.html) and [NGINX JavaScript (NJS)](https://nginx.org/en/docs/njs/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This feature uses the NGINX [ngx_http_auth_request_module](https://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_auth_request_module.html) and [NGINX JavaScript (NJS)](https://nginx.org/en/docs/njs/).
```

{{% /table %}}

### JWT merging behavior

A VirtualServer or VirtualServerRoute can reference multiple JWT policies, but NGINX Ingress Controller applies only the first one. It ignores every subsequent reference. For example, this configuration references two policies:

```yaml
policies:
- name: jwt-policy-one
- name: jwt-policy-two
```

In this example, NGINX Ingress Controller uses the configuration from the first policy reference, `jwt-policy-one`, and ignores `jwt-policy-two`.

## JWT using JWKS from a remote location

{{< call-out class="note" >}}

This feature is only available with NGINX Plus.

{{< /call-out >}}

The JWT policy configures NGINX Plus to authenticate client requests using JSON Web Tokens. You can import the JWKS keys for a JWT policy from a URL, such as a remote server or an identity provider, so you don't have to copy and update them on the Ingress Controller pod.

The following example policy rejects all requests that don't include a valid JWT in the HTTP header fetched from the identity provider:

```yaml
jwt:
  realm: MyProductAPI
  token: $http_token
  jwksURI: <uri_to_remote_server_or_idp>
  keyCache: 1h
```

{{< call-out class="note" >}}

> This feature uses the NGINX Plus directive [auth_jwt_key_request](http://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_auth_jwt_module.html#auth_jwt_key_request), part of [ngx_http_auth_jwt_module](https://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_auth_jwt_module.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This feature uses the NGINX Plus directive [auth_jwt_key_request](https://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_auth_jwt_module.html#auth_jwt_key_request), part of [ngx_http_auth_jwt_module](https://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_auth_jwt_module.html).
```

|``sniName`` | The SNI name to use when connecting to the remote server. If not set, NGINX Ingress Controller uses the hostname from the ``jwksURI``. | ``string`` | No | -- |
|``sslVerify`` | Turns on verification of the JWKS server SSL certificate. | ``bool`` | No | `false` |
|``sslVerifyDepth`` | Sets the verification depth in the JWKS server certificates chain. | ``int`` | No | `1` |
|``trustedCertSecret`` | The name of the Kubernetes secret that stores the CA certificate for JWKS server verification. It must be in the same namespace as the Policy resource. The secret must be of the type ``nginx.org/ca``, and the certificate must be stored in the secret under the key ``ca.crt``. | ``string`` | No | -- |

{{% /table %}}

{{< call-out class="note" >}}

NGINX Ingress Controller turns on content caching by default for each JWT policy, with a default time of 12 hours. This improves resiliency by letting NGINX Ingress Controller retrieve the JWKS (JSON Web Key Set) from the cache even after it expires.

{{< /call-out >}}

> ### JWT merging behavior

Reviewer: same title on line 407

Reviewer 2: changed to ### JWT using JWKS merging behavior

> ### JWT merging behavior

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### JWT using JWKS merging behavior
```

```yaml
policies:
- name: oidc-policy-one
- name: oidc-policy-two
```

In this example, NGINX Ingress Controller uses the configuration from the first policy reference, `oidc-policy-one`, and ignores `oidc-policy-two`.

## OIDCNative

{{< call-out class="note" >}}

This feature is only available with NGINX Plus and requires the [enable-oidc]({{< ref "/nic/configuration/global-configuration/command-line-arguments.md#cmdoption-enable-oidc" >}}) command-line argument.

{{< /call-out >}}

The OIDCNative policy configures NGINX Plus as a relying party for OpenID Connect authentication using the built-in `ngx_http_oidc_module`. Unlike the NJS-based [`oidc`](#oidc) policy, the native implementation handles the entire OIDC flow within the NGINX core, including token exchange, session management, and front-channel logout.

For example, the following policy authenticates users against a Keycloak identity provider:

```yaml
spec:
  oidcNative:
    issuer: https://idp.example.com/realms/master
    clientID: nginx-plus
    clientSecret: oidc-secret
    scope: openid profile email
    logoutURI: /logout
    postLogoutRedirectURI: /_logout
```

{{< call-out class="note" >}}

> This feature uses the NGINX [ngx_http_oidc_module](http://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_oidc_module.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This feature uses the NGINX [ngx_http_oidc_module](https://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_oidc_module.html).
```

```yaml
cache:
  cacheZoneName: "mycache"
  cacheZoneSize: "10m"
  allowedCodes: ["any"]
  allowedMethods: ["GET"]
  time: "30s"
```

Here's an example with more specific configuration:

```yaml
cache:
  cacheZoneName: "mycache"
  cacheZoneSize: "100m"
  allowedCodes: [200, 301, 302]
  allowedMethods: ["GET", "POST"]
  time: "5m"
  levels: "1:2"
  overrideUpstreamCache: true
  inactive: "60m"
  useTempPath: false
  maxSize: "10g"
  minFree: "1g"
  manager:
    files: 100
    sleep: "50ms"
    threshold: "200ms"
  cacheKey: "$scheme$host$request_uri"
  cacheUseStale: [ "error", "timeout", "updating", "http_500" ]
  cacheRevalidate: true
  cacheBackgroundUpdate: true
  cacheMinUses: 1
  lock:
    enable: true
    timeout: "5s"
    age: "30s"
  conditions:
    noCache: [ "$cookie_nocache", "$arg_nocache" ]
    bypass: [ "$http_authorization" ]
```

{{< call-out class="note" >}}

This feature uses the NGINX [ngx_http_proxy_module](https://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_proxy_module.html#proxy_cache_path) `proxy_cache_path` and related directives.

{{< /call-out >}}

{{% table %}}

|Field | Description | Type | Required |
| --- | ---| ---| --- |

> |``cacheZoneName`` | CacheZoneName defines the name of the cache zone. Must start with a lowercase letter,followed by alphanumeric characters or underscores, and end with an alphanumeric character. Single lowercase letters are also allowed. Examples: "cache", "my_cache", "cache1". | ``string`` | Yes |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|``cacheZoneName`` | CacheZoneName defines the name of the cache zone. Must start with a lowercase letter, followed by alphanumeric characters or underscores, and end with an alphanumeric character. Single lowercase letters are also allowed. Examples: "cache", "my_cache", "cache1". | ``string`` | Yes |
```

|``pollInterval`` | How often to re-fetch when ``enablePolling`` is ``true``. Minimum ``1m``, default ``5m``. | ``string`` | No |
|``secret`` | Secret in the same namespace as the Policy. For ``N1C``/``NIM``, use ``nginx.com/waf-bundle`` (token or username/password). For ``HTTPS``, use ``kubernetes.io/tls`` for client mTLS (``tls.crt`` and ``tls.key``). | ``string`` | No |
|``trustedCertSecret`` | Name of an ``nginx.org/ca`` Secret containing a custom CA certificate (``ca.crt``) for verifying the server TLS certificate. Must be in the same namespace as the Policy. | ``string`` | No |
|``insecureSkipVerify`` | Turns off TLS certificate verification. Not recommended for production. | ``bool`` | No |
|``verifyChecksum`` | Turns on SHA-256 verification of the downloaded bundle. HTTPS only. | ``bool`` | No |
|``timeout`` | Time limit for a single bundle fetch request. Default ``60s``. | ``string`` | No |
|``retryAttempts`` | Number of additional fetch attempts after a temporary fetch error (for example, a timeout or HTTP 5xx). Valid range is ``1``-``10``. | ``int`` | No |

{{% /table %}}

For example, see the snippets below:

> NIM

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for NGINX Instance Manager:
```

```yaml
spec:
  waf:
    enable: true
    apBundleSource:
      type: NIM
      url: "https://<nim_host>"
      name: "<policy_name>"
      secret: "nim-credentials"
      enablePolling: true
      pollInterval: "5m"
    securityLogs:
    - enable: true
      apLogBundleSource:
        type: NIM
        url: "https://<nim_host>"
        name: "<log_profile_name>"
        secret: "nim-credentials"
        enablePolling: true
        pollInterval: "5m"
      logDest: "stderr"
```

> N1C

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for NGINX One Console:
```

```yaml
spec:
  waf:
    enable: true
    apBundleSource:
      type: N1C
      url: "https://<tenant>.console.ves.volterra.io"
      name: "<policy_name>"
      namespace: "default"
      secret: "n1c-credentials"
      enablePolling: true
      pollInterval: "5m"
    securityLogs:
    - enable: true
      apLogBundleSource:
        type: N1C
        url: "https://<tenant>.console.ves.volterra.io"
        name: "secops_dashboard"
        namespace: "default"
        secret: "n1c-credentials"
        enablePolling: true
        pollInterval: "5m"
      logDest: "stderr"
```

> HTTPS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For HTTPS:
```
